
# Abstract {-}

Large-scale, international collaborative efforts by members of the BRAIN Initiative Cell Census Network (BICCN) consortium have recently begun aggregating the most comprehensive reference database to date for diverse cell type profiling of the mouse brain, which encompasses over 40 different multi-modal profiling techniques from more than 30 research groups. One central challenge for this integrative effort across different investigators and laboratories has been the need to map these unique datasets into common reference spaces such that the spatial, structural, and functional information from different cell types can be jointly analyzed across modalities. However, significant variations in the acquisition, tissue processing, and imaging techniques across data types makes mapping such diverse data a multifarious problem. Different data types exhibit unique tissue distortion and signal characteristics that precludes a single mapping strategy from being generally applicable across all cell type data. Diverse, modular, and often specialized, mapping approaches are needed to address the particular barriers present in each modality. This work highlights atlas mapping strategies developed across three separate BICCN studies using the ANTsX framework to map longitudinal (LSFM), spatial transcriptomic (MERFISH) and high-resolution morphology (fMOST) mouse brain data into the Allen Common Coordinate Framework (AllenCCFv3). We discuss both common mapping strategies that can be shared across modalities, and targeted strategies driven by specific challenges from each data type. Novel contributions include velocity flow-based approaches for mapping longitudinal trajectory in the Developmental Common Coordinate Framework, and automated structural morphological approaches for determining cortical parcellations. Finally, we provide general guidance and open source tools to aid investigators in this effort to tailor these strategies to address unique challenges in their data without the need to develop additional specialized software.  

\clearpage